But in the midst of seeking the Lord about what series we would do next, God brought
this to my heart to talk about, and it's this idea of perfect peace.
Perfect peace.
And if you study this a little bit, I think it's in the Hebrew language, it's shalom shalom.
And when you begin to study a little bit more of God's perfect peace, it's amazing to see
how God provides that perfect peace.
When I started even diving a little more into that,
I started diving into the idea behind,
just the idea of the struggle in the world
and in our lives with mental health,
dealing with anxiety, depression, worry,
negative thoughts, trauma, you name it,
things like that that we have dealt with in our society
that we may deal with in the church.
And one of the things that I've learned is,
even as I have personally experienced this,
as you'll hear some of my story today,
it's what we call is it's hard to talk about these subjects,
especially as believers, because this is what we assume.
Should we have these struggles if we're a follower of Jesus?
Should we have mental struggles if we're a follower of Jesus?
And I hope to answer that question today for you
if that helps you at all.
And so we're going to dive off into this,
not by my personal gifting, if that makes sense.
I'm gonna give you the spiritual side of it,
but I have been following for a while
a church that walked through a series similar to this,
and they have shared resources to give me
the side of the things that I don't have, right?
It's the, what I would say, the medical,
the psychological side of the things
that can help us in the process of figuring out
how to walk through this also as well as spiritual.
So it's not only on me, don't just look at this
and say, "Hey, Ben should know what he's talking about."
I don't fully know what I'm talking about,
but I do know the Lord and I know people who are,
and so I'm using their resources to kind of guide me
alongside this series as well.
So today is all about setting up the series.
So if you're wondering, "Where's all the content?"
come next week, there's gonna be more of it.
But today's more setting up,
and so it's gonna be a little bit more unique.
But again, I'll ask the question,
maybe answer this question,
why are we going to talk about this series?
I'm felt led of the Lord to talk about this series
because personally, I have dealt with mental struggles
over the last three to five, 10, 15 years
as I begin to look back.
And that may be surprising to you as a pastor,
somebody that leads you each and every week
could struggle with depression,
could struggle with anxiety,
can struggle with, burnout, worry,
where it so consumes you and you wonder,
can I even honestly share this with people around me?
Is that okay?
That's what I used to ask myself.
Is that okay for me as a pastor to have those things?
And that was a burden to carry for so long
until I realized, you know what?
I don't care if it's okay.
It's not okay for me.
And so if this is the first time you've heard me
communicate that to you, hey, that's true.
I deal with those things.
There's some of you that I've shared with this before.
But so that was one of the reasons
why I wanted to tackle this,
because I'm still trying to process how to do this
as a pastor, as a follower of Jesus.
But number two, I've actually talked to a couple people
within our church and several within our community
that struggle with these things.
So this is something that's happening in our whole world,
and so why do we just ignore it in the church?
Let's address it, right?
Let's not ignore it in the church, let's address it.
And so then, again, I came upon some content
in this past fall that really could help guide me in this,
and I felt, okay, this is something
I could probably tackle as a pastor.
So again, knowing that, that's one of the reasons why.
So I wanna kinda start a little bit with my story
and then we'll kinda jump in.
But my story is I begin to think back
and the things that I've dealt with mentally as a kid.
One of the things I realized early on in my life,
most of you may have this as well, is trauma as a child.
That we may not realize that trauma actually
ends up happening where we have a reaction mentally,
socially, to things that have happened in our lives.
And I can't go into the details of it,
but it may be a part of this series.
But when I was about 12 or 13,
we had some major issues within the home church
that we had and a lot of trauma within our family.
And I know my mom and dad are watching this
and they know all about it,
but that trauma led me to hate God,
hate anybody that dealt with the church.
I had a lot of anger issues,
a lot of unforgiveness issues that were with me
for eight to 10 years that controlled my life
and was in and through my life.
And the only time that I actually ended up being
to able to overcome those was because of what Christ did
in my life to help me learn how to forgive,
help me learn how to deal with my anger.
And that was when I started realizing this,
is that that really affected me for 10 years,
10 years it controlled me that much.
Well it didn't stop then, as I got into college
I ended up dealing with worry and anxiety and stress.
And I remember early on in my ministry
whenever I started serving on staff at a church,
I dealt with a lot of, one, burnout,
and then also with a little bit of anxiety.
And I remember one Sunday driving into church,
I'm going to serve the church,
I've gotta be the person that's greeting at the door,
the smile on the face, I've gotta be the person
in the group, or small group, to lead and be the person
that says everything's gonna be okay,
and I'm literally screaming out in my car,
asking God, why do I feel this way?
Why am I so frustrated?
Why do I feel so anxious?
And you know what I heard in that car?
Nothing.
I heard nothing.
And I was broken going to church, trying to serve.
And I remember going into my small group,
and luckily that week I wasn't leading my small group,
and they asked this question, how can we pray for you?
And then in that moment, I had to make the decision.
Am I gonna be real or am I gonna say, I'm good?
Y'all know that, right?
When people say, hey, can I pray for you?
And you know inside you have something
that you wanna share, but you're like,
can I share this in this group?
And they not judge me.
That was where I was.
And it was that moment that I just let go.
And I said, I'm struggling.
And you know what that group did?
They didn't say, man, how dare you?
You Christian, you pastor, how dare you?
You know what they said?
Oh man, you know, I've been struggling with this lately.
and I was trying to figure out how to figure this out.
And so they surrounded me and they prayed for me.
And that was the first part where I started seeing
that it was okay, that God still loves us
in the midst of our brokenness
and still uses us in the midst of our brokenness.
And so there's still more and more of our story,
but even recently, and this is the last part of it
before we jump in, even recently as a pastor
leading this church, in 2021, I hit a wall.
Just straight up hit a wall.
You may have not known it.
I may have covered it up well if you're around here.
maybe you did know it and you just didn't say anything to me.
But I hit a wall, and it was the moment where I decided,
if I don't address this, I'll never make it.
Like, this church is gonna fall apart,
my marriage is gonna fall apart,
everything's gonna fall apart.
So I went and saw a counselor.
I talked with the counselor.
I invited mentors into my life to hold me accountable,
to begin to talk to me and to walk with me
through these things.
And has it been easy?
No, but what I've found, and this is where we're heading,
what I have found is when I sought Jesus,
knowing that Jesus didn't love me any less
because of how I was, when I sought Jesus,
I found shalom, shalom, perfect peace.
And when I find myself going back towards anxiety
and I going back towards worry and burnout,
you know what happens?
It's when I'm not seeking Jesus.
Jesus is perfect peace is always present, always welcome.
He's there, He never leaves us nor forsakes us,
but it's whenever I chose to not seek Jesus.
So I also wanna clarify this, that also,
sometimes we do need to seek help,
just like I sought a counselor.
Sometimes, as I've learned lately,
sometimes I just need to sleep.
Sometimes I just need to eat the right foods.
Those are all spiritual things, by the way.
But sometimes we don't think about that,
we think, well, no, I don't need to change this,
I don't need to change this,
but those things is what also helped me cope,
because I was just learning that I wasn't sleeping enough.
And when you don't sleep enough,
everything seems to be bigger.
Just let me give you a great example.
Last night at 9 p.m., Brittany started talking to me
about family stuff that has big decisions,
and I'm not responding really well.
And you know what she said?
Go to sleep.
You wanna know what she knew?
In that moment, I wasn't thinking right.
And I wanted to push through and fight about it,
and she said, "No, we're not gonna fight."
But by the morning, I was great.
I was like, "Hey, let's talk about these things."
She's like, "Yeah, I see sleep's what you needed."
So again, as we jump into this, I'm not the only one.
And one of the things we're gonna learn
as we dive into the word of God,
you're gonna see many characters in the Bible
that dealt with very similar things, right?
And so my guess is in a room this size
that some of you have dealt with the same thing.
Outwardly, maybe you're holding it together,
but inwardly, you're falling apart,
and you're wondering, how can I keep doing this?
You're wondering, who can I tell without them judging me?
Is it okay?
And just wanna let you know that I hear you,
God hears you, and God cares for you.
And if it's not you now, it may be you in the future.
And if it's not you now, it may be your friend,
your coworker that need you to be present
and know that you can be a safe place to be honest with.
I really don't wanna miss people in this
'cause I could see some of y'all saying,
I don't share with any of that.
And what's this message series do for me?
God is preparing you for a future season
or God is preparing you to minister to someone
who is going through that season.
Do you hear me?
I hope you don't miss that part.
So as we talk about the foundation of this series,
I wanna pray for us.
And it's really the series starting off with today
is the most dangerous myths of our mental health
when we talk about the church.
And so I'm gonna pray with my eyes open this time.
You guys may think that's really weird,
but I'm gonna pray a verse over you.
So you don't have to close your eyes either.
But this is the verse that I wanna pray over you,
pray over us as a church.
Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you
or set you apart completely.
All right, may the God of peace sanctify you completely.
And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept sound
and blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus.
He who calls you as faithful, he will do it.
God is faithful.
So I pray that over you and I pray that God
moves in our lives and hearts today.
So what I want you to do,
I want you to look to the person next to you,
if you have a person around you, say, God is my peace.
Okay, now I want you to turn to the other person
that you just told is not your favorite,
and I want you to do to tell them
that God is my perfect peace.
I want you guys to remember this,
that God is your perfect peace.
God is your perfect peace.
And so I'm so glad that as I've learned over the years
that this is a safe place to share about these things.
Again, going back to my church in Oklahoma,
I never felt like I was comfortable enough
to tell my pastor I struggle with these things.
And I had barely gotten confident enough
to be able to share with my small group.
And I know in the church, this could be a little bit unique
for you to talk about these things,
but I know that it is important for us to do this.
But have you ever had a well-meaning Christian say,
You shouldn't struggle with this because you're a Christian.
And it may not be mental health.
You fill in the blank.
Christians shouldn't struggle with this.
Anybody had a well-meaning Christian say that to you?
I mean, you're a Christian.
Basically, you shouldn't struggle with anything.
I know I've had that before.
I've been told a couple of times
whenever I've said I'm worrying about something
that I've had a well-meaning Christian tell me,
"Worry, that's sinful.
"You need to repent right now and give it all over to God."
And I'm like, "Well, I know I need to give it to God,
"but right now I'm worrying.
"Can you be a little bit more encouraging?"
Of course I didn't say that to them,
I just said, "Hey, thanks for the encouragement,"
and walked away defeated.
I'm just being honest, I walked away completely defeated
because these would be Christians in my life
that I would respect.
And nothing against them,
because that's probably what they were taught
and that's how they figured it out.
But I know that we need to be hearing something different.
And so it could be true when we look at our lives
that we need to just pursue God,
and that is absolutely true in this.
Maybe we do need to repent of our sins
if there's something that's drawn us away from the Lord.
But also I want us to know that it could just be
that we need more sleep, we need professional help,
we need God to guide us to those things as well.
And so I wanna make this statement,
just because your sins are forgiven
doesn't mean that you don't struggle with these things.
Just because our sins are forgiven
doesn't mean we don't struggle with these things.
And I also want you to know this,
just because you come to God
doesn't mean God's gonna perfectly fix everything.
And I'll just give you a great example.
The moment that I got saved,
I would love to have a six pack of abs,
but the Lord didn't say, "Hey, you're saved.
"Glory to God, let's get those six-pack abs right now."
He also, my bank account didn't go up.
My wife didn't submit, like I promised
that God would do that if I gave my life to him.
And really, she probably taught me to submit more.
So all those things that I'd hoped to get out
of a relationship sometimes,
I learned that that doesn't happen
at the moment of salvation.
What I learned, well, later,
my wife's not submitting either, so that's later.
We're not talking about that.
That's not always a promise, okay?
That's another sermon series for another day,
and Brittany's not in here,
she would probably be slapping me right now.
But basically what I would say is that we can't claim
that as we give our lives to Christ that we'll be perfect.
This is a battle, and this is a challenge in our lives,
that as we are followers of Jesus,
we continually wrestle with the flesh,
we wrestle with these things in our lives,
and as we wrestle with them,
God is our perfect peace in the midst of 'em.
So I'm gonna focus on the spiritual aspects today,
but I wanna read this to you,
and I wanna kinda define a few things for us
of what mental health is.
Mental health would include at least three things,
our emotional, psychological, and social well-being.
And it's very important because our mental health
is actually not static, which means this,
it doesn't just stay the same the rest of our lives.
Meaning this, that we can be really healthy
for a little while, and then something happens,
our body changes, we go through trauma,
and we're healthy one moment,
and the next, we're in a bad place.
So our mental health actually impacts everything we do,
right, it acts how we feel and how we determine
how we handle stress and how we treat people
and how we handle difficult situations.
And there's so many misunderstandings
when it comes to mental health.
And we wanna build on that foundation today
through God's word.
And so the first myth that we find
is that Christians shouldn't struggle
with mental health, right?
And so I want you to know this,
that God loves you even though you may fight depression.
God loves you even though you may be in the word every day
and you still struggle with these things.
Even though you have anxiety, God still loves you,
even in the midst of your struggle.
And when we look into the Bible,
and we're gonna start with Elijah in 1 Kings 19,
we're gonna see a prophet of God.
And I wanna kind of set this up,
a prophet of God who was great.
This prophet of God had just got done
basically killing all of these prophets of Baal,
or Baal, whatever you wanna call him,
where they went up on a mountain
and they laid out all this wood
and they put this sacrifice on the altar
and this is what Elijah said to these prophets.
He says, "Hey, why don't you call on your God
"and see if he'll rain down fire and consume this offering."
And these guys, I mean there's like hundreds of them,
they begin to dance around and scream
and call on their God and they were even crazy.
They cut themselves.
That's not the type of religion I wanna be a part of.
But they did that for hours and nothing to avail.
And Elijah called down one prayer,
God, basically, will you move?
and God rained down fire and consumed the offering.
Right after that was whenever Elijah and many others
killed those prophets because they were false prophets.
And then you see Elijah go on the run.
And you go, God just used Elijah mightily,
and then he goes on the run.
So let's read here in 1 Kings chapter 19,
starting in verse one, it says,
Ahab, which was the king at that time,
told his wife Jezebel everything that Elijah had done
and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.
So Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah and said,
"May the gods punish me and do so severely
"if I don't make your life like the one of them
"by this time tomorrow."
So like the prophets that he just got in killing.
And then Elijah became very afraid.
That is crazy.
God just worked for Elijah.
He is the godly man.
And he was very afraid.
And immediately ran for his life.
And when he came to Beersheba,
and that belonged to Judah, he left his servant there,
but then went on a day's journey into the wilderness.
And he sat down under a broom tree
and prayed that he might die.
And he said, "I have had enough, Lord.
"Take my life, for I am no better than my father's."
Then he lay down and he slept under the broom tree.
And suddenly an angel touched him
and the angel told him, "Get up and eat."
And then he looked and there at his head
was a loaf of bread over hot stones and a jug of water.
And he ate and he drank and he laid down again.
And then the angel of the Lord
returned for a second time and touched him.
and he said, "Get up and eat,
"so the journey will be too much for you."
And so he got up and ate and drank,
and in the strength from the food,
and he walked 40 days and 40 nights to Horeb,
and the mountain of God,
and he entered the cave there and spent the night.
And so as we look at this prophet of God,
he struggled, right?
He struggled, and one of the things that we see
right after God mightily used him,
was he wished he would die,
he slept all the time, and he lost his motivation.
As you begin to even dive into this,
When you look at symptoms of depression and anxiety,
sometimes they lead to overwhelming exhaustion.
And what he had just got done doing, obviously,
is traveling was that as well.
But this is a guy who struggled with some
of the similar things that we may struggle with
when it comes to mental health.
But you know one of the things I want us to see with this?
What did God provide Elijah in his time of need?
His presence was one of them.
Don't wanna miss that one.
But what is the couple of things that he provided?
Sleep, water, and food.
The basics and necessities of life to overcome some of this.
Now there's more to the story
and I don't wanna miss all of that
and I don't have time to go through all of that,
but I would just say this,
God provided some of the most essential things
to help some of his worry and concern,
to build him up physically,
but then one of the coolest parts that I see in all of it
was his presence.
God never left him, even though he was worrying.
I mean, this is a guy who God just mightily used
and he can worry and God still shows his presence.
This is a reminder that God meets you where you're at,
No matter what you've done, no matter where you're at,
God is always present.
And so we are not immune to these things
as followers of Jesus.
God promises his presence in the midst of these struggles.
So I wanna give just two quick other examples.
David, and I'm not gonna go into any verses for it,
but David, as we know a little bit more about David,
if you read in the Psalms,
David's the one who killed Goliath, right?
Ah, man, this guy's gotta be perfect with the Lord.
He never struggles with anything.
Well, the majority of his Psalms talk about his despair
and how he wondered if the Lord even heard him
and if the Lord was even present.
There was constantly David who was questioning God
and then God would show up.
We also know the prophet Jeremiah
was known as the weeping prophet.
And so I would say some of you may be known as that as well
but that's not a bad thing, right?
God was still present in his loneliness and his insecurity.
He even cursed the day that he was born
but God still used him.
So if we find ourselves like many of other people
in the world, that we do struggle with these things,
what do we do?
We go to God.
We go to God and we know that God cares for us
no matter what we're going through.
And my encouragement, this is such an encouragement to you,
go to your church family,
because we can bear those burdens alongside you.
If there's something we don't miss from this,
I want, no matter what you're struggling with,
if it's not mental health, if it's something else,
You need to know that this church family
is a place to come to without judgment,
but to bring hope and to bring encouragement,
to bring prayer and support.
And we need to remember that God has provided
those people there for such a time as this.
So myth number two that we're gonna talk about
is that God doesn't care about our mental health, right?
We see a little bit in this Elijah story
that God does care, right?
But you may say this, why would God care about me
when there's so many other things going on in the world?
You guys know if you read any of the news,
maybe that's why you have anxiety.
But if you read any of the news,
you know there's a lot going on.
Doesn't God care more about those things?
Like, doesn't he have more,
like he needs to focus on those things, right?
But this is the cool part.
God has given us a individual relationship with him
to care for you individually, 24/7, seven days a week.
So does God care?
Absolutely, 100% God cares about everything.
the small things and the big things.
No matter what you're going through, God cares.
And so here's just some highlights from Psalms
that shows us that God cares.
And a lot of these will even come from David.
Yeah, so the Lord is my light and my salvation.
Whom shall I fear?
Again, I don't have the verse references up here,
but I'm just giving you a couple of clips from it.
The Lord is close to the brokenhearted.
He saves those who are crushed in the spirit.
God is our refuge and our strength.
He is our ever-present help in time of need.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want, he makes me lie down in green pastures,
he restores my soul.
Even though I walk through the valley
of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil,
for thou art with me, your rod and your staff,
they comfort me.
So, I think it's so important for you to know today
that God cares for you.
And he says to cast every care, not just the small ones,
not just the ones you feel confident about,
it's every single thing you are going through,
God 100% cares for you.
And I wanna share a Psalm that maybe
will be encouraging to you,
because I'll go back to that day in the car
where I felt like God wasn't present,
and I wondered where God was,
and I got out of my car,
and when I went into my small group,
and God prompted me to share in that small group,
and that small group prayed for me.
You know what God said?
"Here I am."
Because the people of God had the Spirit of God inside them
to surround me in that moment.
So you may be that person that says,
"Where's God at?"
Well, there's also a couple of Psalms.
There's two Psalms where there's not a happy ending,
and I wanna share one of them with you,
because I'm that glass half empty guy.
I want you to see the negative of it
because some of you may be a lot like me.
So in Psalm 88, it should be up on the screen here.
Here's what a guy named Heman,
so you know it's not He-man, but it's Heman,
okay, whatever you wanna call it,
but it's not the character here.
This guy was good at a couple things.
You'll see this here.
He had a lot of music ability.
He had great wisdom.
He was a committed parent.
He had great service to the king.
This would be a man of God,
somebody you would say is a deacon in the church,
somebody who was well-known by God.
And here's what he says, "I am overwhelmed with troubles
and my life draws near to death.
I'm counted among those who go down to the pit
and I'm like one without strength.
I'm set apart with the dead,
like the slain who lie in the grave,
who remember no more, who are cut off from your care.
But I cry to you for help, Lord.
In the morning, my prayer comes before you.
Why, Lord, do you reject me and hide your face from me?
You have taken from me friend and neighbor
and darkness is my closest friend."
See, in this Psalm you would think as you continue to read,
there's more of this Psalm as you read through this,
like where's the good ending, right?
Where's the good ending, where's the good ending?
And it ends and you're like,
he sought the Lord, which is great,
but sometimes in the seeking,
we can still feel like God is absent.
Absent.
And I know that I have felt that way many times,
but what sticks out to me is that he kept going to God
despite how he felt.
And I want you to take this.
God wants you to be real.
Don't, I mean, it's so funny,
'cause again, maybe I'm the only one that does this.
There's sometimes I won't share something with the Lord
'cause I think he can't handle it, or he doesn't care.
And it's so funny because God knows the thoughts
of our heart and our mind.
God already knows, he's waiting on you to cast it on him.
So God wants us to be real.
And here's the cool part.
Today, if you're here and you're this person in the Psalm
and you're showing your presence here,
saying you care, God, I'm crying out to you
and I'm wanting you to answer,
and you're wondering where God is,
here's what I promise you,
that God is here present with you today.
God cares for you.
God sees your struggle.
And you're not the only one.
Do not let the enemy think and control those thoughts
to where you're the only one.
And I want you to know this,
whenever we think about getting help
and asking and inviting people in,
maybe it's a counselor, maybe it is a small group
that you share these things with.
This is such a key statement.
Getting help is not a sign of weakness,
it's a sign of wisdom and strength.
it's a sign of strength and wisdom.
Over and over again, we have to humble ourselves
before God, before our friends, and be real.
You wanna know the hardest parts for me
to be real with my mental struggles?
There was one person that I struggled to share with.
Wanna know who it is?
My wife.
She knows me.
She loves me for who I am,
but we had to sit down and have a long conversation,
and I had to communicate why I felt the way I felt,
and I didn't know why, and I hated it,
just as much as she hated the way I was
when I felt that way.
And you know what it did?
It brought us together
where the enemy was trying to divide us,
'cause you know what the enemy told me?
Don't tell her.
You know, you just need to be strong.
you seem to suck it up, figure it out.
And it didn't work, and it only made things more difficult.
And I had to just get honest with her and be real.
And once I did, and I want you to see this,
when we are honest, when we share with others,
there is power in sharing our struggles in the open.
Wanna know why?
What does the enemy do?
He wants you alone.
He wants you to think you're the only one going through it.
He wants you to continually think on it
and think on it and think on it
and separate yourself from people
who can remind you of God's hope.
And so why do we share these things with people?
Why am I today sharing this?
'Cause you may walk out saying,
"This pastor's not strong enough.
"If he's got mental struggles, I don't wanna follow him."
If you don't, every pastor you do follow
is just not honestly telling you what he's struggling with.
But you may walk out of this room and think,
"You know what, this is crazy."
But I want you to know that getting things out in the open
and being honest before people
Being honest for God is one of the most freeing things
because the burden's not on you anymore.
It's on God and it's on the people of God
that he has placed around you.
And thank God that he has given us this group
to surround one another, to encourage one another,
to say, I hear you and I see you
and I know you're struggling and you just be you.
If you gotta step back, if you gotta sit down,
if you need to do whatever you need to do,
we're there to support you.
I would say this, if you need a mill,
if you need to get off your feet and you need to go away,
we'll figure out some way to send you away to get help.
If you need counseling and you can't financially afford it,
you come tell us as a church, we'll help you.
That's what we're here for.
We're here as a family of God, seeking God's face,
and there's power in being open and honest.
I was reminded in Matthew 22, 37,
where it says, "Love the Lord your God
"with all your heart, mind, and soul."
And when I think about that with your mind,
And some of the hardest things is where we defeat ourselves
in our mind, and I've quoted this to you guys before,
what we think on most is what we tend to be consumed by.
And so our lives are heading in the direction
of our strongest thoughts.
Our strongest thoughts need to be on God
and on the people of God that He's provided around us.
And so Isaiah 26, three, this is what I've been sharing,
this key verse here, it says,
"You will keep in perfect peace all who trust in you."
I wanna say that again.
"You will keep in perfect peace all who trust in you,
and all whose thoughts are fixed on you.
Shalom, shalom, perfect peace.
When we are dealing with these things,
and as we go through this series,
and as we break them down into individual pieces,
I want you to know that every answer is to give it to God.
But I just wanna promise you this,
when you give it to God, God may say,
the body of Christ needs to support you in this,
which means maybe you do need a counselor.
Maybe you do, and again, a Christian counselor,
I know some, I can send you to a Christian counselor
that's guiding you through the word of God
and through our mental struggles
and understanding how that works.
You could just need to go to the doctor
and learn that maybe you have thyroid issues.
Maybe you have, I mean, I'm serious,
I went and had a battery of tests this last fall
because I was just struggling again.
I said, "There's gotta be something wrong with me."
You know what the doctor said?
"You need vitamin D."
That was like really the it,
and I'm like, "There's gotta be something wrong.
"I've got high blood pressure or something."
She's like, "No."
I was like, "Well, I'm just struggling
"'cause there's just some days
"need to sleep?"
And she's like, "Well, sleep."
And I'm like, "Oh, that's really cool.
(audience laughing)
"Is that easy?"
And so, I say this, all this,
is that it is give it to God.
And sometimes God points you back to the people
that he's provided in this world to help us in this journey.
Don't let the enemy fool you
that you can't be honest and open.
And so, I'll just be honest with you.
Was all these things that I've walked through
and some of the things that I've learned
have been an instant fix?
No, like, if you've known me, I still struggle.
And you know, but you know what the cool part is?
Is I actually now have some things in place
that when I'm struggling, I go back to God's presence.
I go back to, I'm calling the people
that I put in my life to say, hey, can you encourage me?
Can you speak into my life?
I still have access to the counselor in which I need.
That's okay, because that's maybe what I need
in order to keep going and do what I need to do,
but I'm not gonna let it defeat me.
I'm not gonna let the enemy defeat me and say
that I've gotta figure it out on my own.
So this is how I wanna end here.
We have to just kind of remember,
we have to reject these myths today
that Christians shouldn't struggle with mental health
and we need to reject the idea that God doesn't care
because God absolutely, 100% does care.
We're gonna spend some time over the next couple weeks
and that's why this is just a set up series.
and I'm telling you next week,
I've already been studying next week,
I'm super excited about this.
The three things that I taught you in our prayer time,
we're literally gonna dive into.
where the word of God talks about how a king prayed,
his people prayed, and they paused, and they worshipped,
and God won the battle for them.
That's all they did, that's all they did.
They had an enemy that was attacking them,
and they didn't know what to do.
I may have already just told you next week's message,
but I'm just telling you, come back next week,
because God reminds us that he is the one
that defeats our enemies,
and for me, it could be mental health.
For you, it could be fear,
and it could be an anxiety,
and it could be other things
that are going on in your life,
but God defeats them through prayer,
and pausing, and praise.
God is so good, and I wanna lead you to his feet.
Not a perfect plan that we can figure out outside of God,
but God is the center of the plan.
God gives us perfect peace.
So as we move into invitation,
I just really wanna encourage you guys to be honest.
To be honest with yourselves,
because you know what,
I'm gonna try to share in this way as we end.
One of the things that I struggle with
even going through this series
was what if I preach this series
and everybody sitting listening is going,
well, we don't struggle with that.
What do we do with this?
And I don't know if you do.
I have no clue if you have any of these struggles.
And so I pray today, not that you do,
I pray that you don't.
Don't hear what I'm saying.
I pray that if you do, if it's three of you,
the rest of y'all just suck it up
over the next six weeks, okay?
We're ministering to three people.
I think there's somebody else that needs to hear this.
Not only me, but there's somebody else in this room
that needs to hear this.
There's somebody that isn't here today
that's gonna come next week that needs to hear this.
And in all reality, you may know a friend, a neighbor,
a parent, a sibling that needs to come to this series,
and they need to hear that God is the one
that can help them get through these things.
I want you to begin to ask God that
during this time of invitation.
Who is it else that needs to hear this?
It may be you, but it also may be somebody else
in your life.
But I'm praying that I am ministering
to somebody outside myself.
And so today during invitation,
I want you to be honest before God.
I want you to be honest before God,
and I want you to admit if you are struggling with anything.
And then I want you to just lay at his feet and say,
"Lord, I still don't know how to quite pick this up
"and figure this out, but it's yours, not mine,
"it's yours, Lord."
So dear invitation, I really am challenging you to do that.
So I'm gonna pray for us,
and we're gonna continue to talk a little bit more,
and then we're gonna worship.
So Lord Jesus, as I pray for those who are in this room,
Lord, that are struggling, Lord, with,
maybe it's anxiety or depression or burnout,
or maybe it's worry,
maybe it's trauma from some past experience, Lord,
I don't know what it is, Lord,
that they may be struggling with.
But Lord, I pray for the person in this room today
that they leave here heard.
They leave here, Lord, reminded of the body of Christ
that, Lord, you provided them to be around
to get support and encouragement.
Lord, I pray that if there's a person in this room, Lord,
is not close to you,
maybe they've been walking away from you,
maybe they don't have a relationship with you, Lord,
I pray that maybe today they experience true,
lasting hope through a relationship with you
and they begin to experience the perfect peace
as they pursue you and not themselves and not the world.
As we continue to pray, I really, I'm telling you,
This is something I wanna get more direct with
because I think when we come in on a Sunday morning,
it's so easy to just watch the worship team
and kind of sing along, to connect with some friends,
listen to a message and go,
"Okay, that sounds great," and then leave.
But we are a church that's leading people to Jesus,
that wants people to experience Jesus.
And I know a room like this,
there may be somebody that doesn't know Jesus.
And I am at this point as a pastor
that I don't wanna play it safe.
I don't wanna play it safe.
So here's what I want to challenge you with.
If you want to experience a God
that you've never experienced before,
a relationship with Jesus
today is the day.
Stop letting the enemy defeat you that it's not today.
It is today.
And so if you wanna experience hope and peace
and a God who cares for you where you are,
I want you to raise your hand right now.
I want you to lift up your hand
and admit that you have a need for Jesus,
that we can pray for you and we can lead you to Jesus
and that we can encourage you
and walk alongside you in your faith.
But the more and more that we sit here every week
and we reject that, the more and more
you're gonna miss out on the perfect peace.
And so if you're in this room and you need Jesus,
just lift up your hand.
There's no one that is looking around laughing.
There's actually gonna be people
that are actually celebrating with you.
And so if you need Jesus, I challenge you to do that now.
And if you do, we'll pray with you and we'll encourage you.
We're not here to embarrass you,
but we're here to support you in this.
And so I just wanna encourage you,
those who haven't raised your hand,
that during this time of invitation,
that you ask the Lord to move in your life,
to meet your needs, if it is that you need perfect peace,
to meet your needs, if you need help in any of these areas,
and then come back next week with a friend who does as well.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
Thank you again for your word, 'cause your word is truth.
Thank you again, Lord, for the opportunity
to remind myself and this church, Lord, that you do care.
You see us where we are,
no matter what we're struggling with,
no matter what we're going through, Lord, you see us
and you are here to guide us and to show your support
and to show your love and to provide mercy and peace
and to give us, Lord, what we need
in order to experience you more and more
and more and more and more.
But God, I am so burdened over this thought
that we don't seek you enough when we are worshiping
and when we live out our lives, Lord,
and I'm just praying, Lord,
that every person in this room has conviction today.
Lord, that they need to seek you first in all they do.
And Lord, let that guide and direct their lives.
So Lord, give this room a heart of worship today.
Lord, give them a heart to call out to you
and ask for help in these areas.
And Lord, I pray that if there's any way that I can help,
if somebody has questions about how to follow Jesus,
they'll find me in the back,
they'll come and ask questions, and I can pray with them.
And so we pray this in your heavenly name, amen.
I wanna mention this real quick for you,
if you do need prayer, just individually,
I'm gonna be in the back,
I would love to be able to pray with you,
even if it's just something
that you have going on in your life.
And so, Matt, you can lead us.
[BLANK_AUDIO]